{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Leys 2002. 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 The significance of syncytial tissues for the position of the hexactinellida in the metazoa.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Fossil record dates back to Cambrian/Precambrian.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Glass sponge reefs were widespread and massive ones occurred in the Jurassic. Sponge reefs were thought to be extinct but  4 such reefs were discovered off Vancouver Island, British Columbia. (Conway metal 1991.)\
{\listtext	\'95	}With a few exceptions, glass sponges are restricted to deep water. The exceptions occur at the edge of the operation range of SCUBA.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Most (75%) of the glass sponge tissue consist of multinucleated tissue called trabecular syncytium. The remaining tissue consist of uninucleate cells that are connected to the syntax tissue by open or plugged cytoplasmic bridges. The syncyticia often occurs as fine branching.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Glass sponges can propagate electrical signals that cause the arrest of feeding current, which is consistent with they syncytial condition.\
{\listtext	\'95	}No other metazoan contains such extensive syncytial. \
{\listtext	\'95	}The connection between the syncyticium and the uniculeated cells are typically plugged by a semiporous junction that probably allows for the free transport of ions. Perforate plugged junctions.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The syncytium is extremely thin. The cytoplasm is very sparse\
{\listtext	\'95	}Absence of a well-developed collagenous mesohyl\
{\listtext	\'95	}The syncytial tissue and perforate plugged junctions allow for the propagation of electrical signals through the sponge.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The propagated action potential is fast, 0.26 cm/sec; considerably faster than the speeds observed in some desmosponges (10-20 um/sec), but it is slower that that recored in numerous other invertebrates. This impulse has the characteristics of a calcium-based event.\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
Maldonado 2004 choanocytes and choanoflagellates are homologous\
\
Nielsen 2008 Six major steps in evolution: are we derived sponges?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Urmetazoan was a specialized choanoflagellate\
{\listtext	\'95	}Choanocyte and choanoflagellate collar units are homologous \
{\listtext	\'95	}All sponge larvae are ciliated leuthotrophic larvae\
{\listtext	\'95	}Molecular studies paraphyletic\
{\listtext	\'95	}Desmosponge-Hexactinellids cells are held together by adhering-catenin complexes but Tyler(2003) characterized cell junctions to be transient; no permanent occluding junctions.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Hexactinellida have a very unusual structure with a syncytial body with partially isolated collar complexes instead of choanocytes (mackie and Single 1983, Less 2003b) Spicules are initially secreted in syncytial vacuoles (Ley 2003a)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Calcararea pinacocytes are tightly joined but septa are generally absent. Septatelike junctions between sclerocytes and between choanocytes, however cell junctions are generally described as transient\
{\listtext	\'95	}Homosclreomorpha have a basement membrane with collagen IV underneath the pinacoderma and choanoderm and the blastocoel of the larvae.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Eumetazoa sister to Homoscleromorpha\
{\listtext	\'95	}Presumably the eumetazoans evolved from larval homoscleromorphs\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\
Sperling et al 2007 Porifera paraphylogeny and its implications for Precambrian paleobiology.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Homoscleromorpha + Eumetazoa forms the clade Epitheliozoa\
{\listtext	\'95	}Primary eumetazoan characteristics: tissues, an acrosome, a nervous system and a gut. The acquisition of acrosome and tissue antedated the LCA of homoscleromorph and eumetazoans \
{\listtext	\'95	}\
}