{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 If you were asked to name five animals, which ones would they be? \
Chances are, most if not all of the five would be mammals. That\'92s understandable. Most of our pets and farm animals are mammals. Most of the local wildlife we notice or the animals in our zoos are mammals. In fact, many people use the words mammal and animal interchangeably. \
But what if you were asked to name 50?\
This larger list would probably include a greater variety of animals, if for no other reason than you can\'92t remember that many mammals. This second list might include several birds, some reptiles and amphibians, and possibly a few fishes or insects. And, if you started thinking about creatures that lived in tidepools, sandy beaches or garden soils, chances are the list would become considerably more diverse.  Nevertheless, many would probably still be mammals.\
Even though we tend to first think of mammals when we think of animals, they account for only a small percentage of the total. Estimates vary (there aren\'92t enough zoologists to keep track of everything), but between  1.3 and 1.4 million animal species have been collected, studied and named since {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://3B2B8CF3-A415-4CD3-BE84-5ED1236DF7D8"}}{\fldrslt Carl Linneaus}} started doing it in 1735.\
Over that same time zoologists have named just 4,475 species of mammals, That\'92s less than 0.3% of the total! As a matter of fact, there are more species of birds (about 9,000), reptiles, (7,984), amphibians (about 5,000) and ray-finned bony fishes (about 23,500) than there are of mammals. If it makes you feel better, there are only 810 species of cartilaginous fishes (sharks and their relatives), 88 species of jawless fishes (lampreys and hagfishes), and only seven species of lobe-finned fishes (lungfishes and coelacanths).\
Together, the mammals, birds and other animals just mentioned belong to a group called the Craniata. (Also known as vertebrates.) They differ from all other animals by having an internal skeleton with a skull and a spine. Craniata is a phylum [footnote on Craniata and Chordata], which is the highest subdivision (or top rank) of the Animal Kingdom. Zoologists don\'92t fully agree on the total number of phyla (phyla is the plural of phylum), but there are between 30-38 of them. \
Figure 1 shows the relative size of the 30 phyla that I\'92ll use in this book. The figure is interactive and I suggest you play with it to gleam more about the patterns of diversity, environments, size and the identity of the major phyla.  One of the tasks for this book is to help make sense of these and other patterns found among the animals.}