{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The animal phyla presented in Figure 1 are arranged somewhat alphabetically in a clockwise arch. (It\'92s not strictly alphabetical because of the overwhelming number of arthropod species.) They\'92re arranged this way because I\'92ve yet to present any meaningful system for organizing the different phyla. \
People often resort to classification to help make sense of bewildering multitudes, and they\'92ve certainly done so with animals. One of the more striking things they\'92ve noticed is that animals naturally cluster into groups, which in turn cluster into larger groups. For instance, the honeybee can readily be grouped with other bees, which in turn can be grouped with all other insects. In some cases these groupings are intuitive. In others, not so much.\
The delineating and characterizing of these patterns of groups within groups has been a cornerstone of biological classification and its genesis dates to 1758 with the publication of the tenth edition of Carolus Linnaeus\'92s 
\i Systema Naturae
\i0 . Linnaeus,
\b  schooled in logic and believer of  divine creation. 
\b0   Linnaeus employed four ascending taxonomic ranks (Species, Genus, Order and Class) with which to organize all living things. His approach was eminently practical; he grouped organisms on the basis of their similarities. Together with his other reforms, including the adoption of binomial nomenclature (i.e., genus + species) and the use of succinct diagnoses as to what constituted a group, Linnaeus greatly simplified and standardized the naming and identifying of animals, plants and other organisms. His system was embraced by thousands of naturalists and scientists as they searched the globe for new species.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://423379E3-725F-42E6-B87D-22A0FD909B35"}}{\fldrslt [Mayr]}}\
 Linnaeus\'92s system\'97referred here as the Linnaean Hierarchy\'97has been modified and augmented over the years. For instance, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://33671999-8359-47DC-831C-A5C48D925D7F"}}{\fldrslt Pierre Andre Latreille}} introduced the rank of Family in 1796, while Ernst Haeckel added the rank of Phyla in 1866. The number of animal species has increased dramatically since Linnaeus recorded an impressive total of 4236 in 
\i Systema Naturae
\i0 . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://99794765-F627-4BC2-A743-86EE73DA3B71"}}{\fldrslt [Stearn 1959]}} Now we have well over a million. The number of groups placed within these taxonomic ranks have also grown substantially. For instance, Ernst Haeckel identified five animal phyla in 1866. By the end of the 20
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century there were more than thirty. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2B164A65-81DC-4303-A0B8-4FA1F1393736"}}{\fldrslt [Valentine]}}\
In 1859, Charles Darwin presented a compelling idea presented in his 
\i On the Origin of Species
\i0 . He argued that the pattern of groups within groups\'97Darwin actually used the phrases \'93groups subordinate to groups and groups under groups\'94\'97was the consequence of common decent. In other words, similar animals are such because they share a common ancestor. To take our honeybee example, it shares a common ancestor with other bees, and they in turn share a more distant common ancestor with all other insects. This pattern of groups within groups wasn\'92t just a convenient clustering of similarities to be exploited for pragmatic classification or a \'93Natural System\'94 that revealed the work of the Creator.  It was caused by genealogy.\
Darwin\'92s theory of common decent explained some of the more perplexing patterns found in nature. For example, the identical pattern of arm bones for animals as different as frogs, lizards, bats, birds, whales and humans baffled many scientists in the early 19
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century and prompted some to engage in philosophical arguments {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://22F6B087-0C65-44DC-B6DE-7AD4655B7F80"}}{\fldrslt involving derivations from idealized forms}}. Yet this pattern is readily addressed if one considers their common genealogy. Such explanatory power prompted many biologists who used the Linnaean Hierarchy to consider phylogeny (a system of genealogy that incorporates change over time) in their classifications. Instead of grouping organisms simply because of similarities, they searched for evidence of relatedness. They sought to discover the animal tree of life.\
It proved daunting. For one thing, there\'92s the sheer numbers of species. How do you sort through them all? For another, there\'92s the considerable variety of morphological and developmental features to evaluate. Which features tell you something about relatedness? Which ones tell you of adaptations used by different animals for a common mode of life? Which don\'92t tell you much about anything?\
One solution was to specialize on narrow groups. Informed by the experience gleamed from examining thousands of specimens, experts (or authorities) in these groups could construct viable classifications and plausible phylogenies. Typically, these were based on the authority\'92s judgement as to which among the numerous features carried more weight. These judgements tended to be ad hoc. Criteria developed for one group typically did not work for another. For instance, the number of fin spines may work for one group, while the configuration of selected skull bones may work for a second and the structural details of genitalia may work for a third.  Perhaps most seriously, this work was predicated on authority of the experts. As such, it\'92s inherently difficult for the non-specialist to challenge or verify. \
Determining relationships within and between the higher ranks of the Linnaean Hierarchy also proved difficult. Scientists typically employed body plans to define these larger groups A body plan ideally consisted of a suite of generalized features common to all its members. For example, flatworms (Phylum Platyhelminthes) are bilateral (they have left and right sides), flattened animals with distinct anterior and posterior ends, a blind gut (a single opening that serves as both the mouth and the anus), parallel nerve cords running the length of the body, an excretory system that\'92s distributed throughout the body, no circulatory system, no specialized respiratory system (their flat bodies allow them respire by diffusion) and no coelom (body cavity). Birds (Class Aves) present another example of a body plan. They are vertebrates distinguished by feathers, toothless beaks, hard-shell eggs, high metabolic rates, a four-chambered heart, a back pair of limbs that are legs and a front pair that are wings. \
One problem with body plans was that there are notable exceptions. For instance, many flightless birds have significantly reduced wings and one group, the moas, lacked them altogether. Moas were driven to extinction by the 15
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century. Would they be considered birds had they survived? Similarly, tapeworms (Cestoda) are a group of parasitic flatworms that lack a gut of any kind. The widely adopted answer for moas, tapeworms and similar exceptions is to include them in their respective groups because they have secondarily lost features that define their respective groups.\
There are other problems with body plans. For one, many fossil animals that could arguably be included in a group lacked one or more of the defining features. For instance, numerous bird fossils from the Cretaceous have teeth (thus lacking a toothless bill). In response to these fossil exceptions, biologists distinguish between crown and stem members of a group. The former, which are extant (living), are defined by the body plan, whereas the latter, which are by definition extinct, may not have had evolved the full suite of features. \
Perhaps the most serious problem is that body plans are also ad hoc. Biologists observe clusters of similar animals and\'97reasonably\'97presume that they are related. They then identify\'97on a group-by-group rather than a consistent basis\'97features that these animals have in common. Despite these and other problems, the Linnaean Hierarchy has enjoyed a significant measure of success. It\'92s been essential for thousands of researchers in fields as diverse as wildlife biology, applied entomology and paleontology. It\'92s also resulted in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://745196A7-076E-414B-8D71-FDAF891891F7"}}{\fldrslt some important insights}} into their evolutionary relationships. \
A challenge to the primacy of the Linnaean Hierarchy debuted in 1950 with the publication of Willi Hennig\'92s 
\i Systematic Phylogeny
\i0 . Hennig argued that classifications needed to be based solely on phylogeny. He discarded taxonomic ranks altogether and he presented a consistent system for determining and qualifying phylogenies. [Shared derived features] [holophylogeny is good, paraphylogeny is unacceptable][topology]\
Hennig\'92s system, renamed Cladistics by some of its adherents, [determining phylogenies by the full weight of features, not by specific features judged more important than others] [problem because of calculation   challenges]\
\
\
[Classification by objective methods rather than judgement calls.]\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
[Problems and success, practical, but constrained within pre-evolutionary ranks]\
[Two developments, cladistics and then molecular biology]\
\
\
\
\
Plausible intermediate forms were elusive and biologists sometimes resorted to creating {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FD12B2FB-D97E-487B-A077-B70790BE6631"}}{\fldrslt hypothetical ancestors}} to link disparate classes and phyla. They did come up with plausible groups Bilateria, Eumetozoa, Deuterostomes, Protostomes.\
\
The gaps among them were effectively\'97if not essentially\'97seen as unbridgeable. More about this in a bit. [MAY DROP THE UNBRIDGABLE STUFF FOR NOW]\
\
some of this. But the problem was it was often up to the judgement of specialists, informed by their extensive experience with narrow groups, to come up with some answers.\
\
\
The endeavor was disappointing for many biologistsThere were problems. Some results were conflicting. For instance, [Mayr - bird experts] Some despaired [gave up common decent]. They were also generally untestable by the non-specialists scientist [Many of the best and brightest went to the more scientifically rewarding fields of biochemistry, cell biology, Mendelian genetics or physiology]\
[Problems with ad hoc and verification, many leave for more experimental biology]\
[Darwin Page 343 discussion of chains of affinities that work well in birds but less so in crustaceans]\
[Nonetheless some progress has been made]\
[Unsatisfying to many scientists]\
[Testability as a hallmark]\
[Cytology, biochemistry, mendelian genetics, physiology - experimental biology]\
\
\
[Body plans, sometimes misleading, sometimes stand the test of time]\
[Proxies for relatedness]\
[Reasoned judgement]\
[For some taxa the trail is cold]\
\
\
[Morphology and embryology, justification of higher taxon based not just on similarity but on features considered to be indicative of phylogeny]\
\
The effects of this on delineating phyla were significant. If members of a readily defined animal group could not be identified as related to (i.e., belonging to) any existing, higher-ranking group, then they could arguably constituted a new group of that higher rank. This could apply to phyla as well as orders and classes. Consequently, there are phyla consisting of only a few dozen species\'97or even just one species\'97alongside phyla with tens of thousands of species.\
[Defining phyla by body plans. Suites of features. Body plans, discrete boundaries, unbridgeable gaps, hard pressed to make connections]\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
[Things got tricky when you approached the rank of phyla]\
\
[Scientist use caution assigning new phyla. New phyla can be very small if phylogenetically justified,  growing popularity of body plan. You basically hit a wall (jump from phyla to kingdom with no intermediates]\
[Cambrian Explosion]\
\
\
\
\
\
\
[Phyla, even more special among these ranks]\
[Phyla have been split or former phyla absorbed, the the number has been relatively stable [between 30-38] since the last decades of the 20
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century (true???)]\
[As per Collins and Valentine 2001, the chasm between phyla seemed unbridgeable, primarily because morphological and developmental criteria were not powerful enough to discredit some phylogenies while supporting others ]\
[The chasm had its philosophical origins with Cuvier\'92s Embranchments]\
[Other article on morphological distinctions (circularity) reinforcing the identity of the phyla]\
\
Maybe have an abridged narrative with tangents for morphology, embryology and molecular biology, phonetics, cladistics\
\
Was the overwhelming majority view until the last decades of the 20
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century.\
\{How do I get from this to discussing \
\
[No meaningful way to organize phyla] hard-pressed to bridge the gaps between phyla\
\
\
\
Arthropoda 1848\
Mollusca Linneaus 1758\
Echinodermata Klein\
Annelida Lamarck 1809\
Cnideria Hatchek 1888\
Todd 1838\
Platyhelminthes Gegenbaur 1859\
}