{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The animal phyla presented in Figure 1 are arranged somewhat alphabetically in a clockwise arch. (It\'92s not strictly alphabetical because of the overwhelming number of arthropod species.) They\'92re arranged this way because I\'92ve yet to present any meaningful system for organizing the different phyla. \
People often resort to classification to help make sense of bewildering multitudes, and they\'92ve certainly done so with animals. One of the more striking things they\'92ve noticed is that animals naturally cluster into groups, which in turn cluster into larger groups. For instance, the honeybee can readily be grouped with other bees, which in turn can be grouped with all other insects. In some cases these groupings are intuitive. In others, not so much.\
The delineating and characterizing of these patterns of groups within groups has been a cornerstone of zoological classification since the publication of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://16161691-F66E-45BC-98E3-866A355B5687"}}{\fldrslt tenth edition of Carolus Linnaeus\'92s 
\i Systema Naturae}}
\i  
\i0 in 1758. An avid naturalists, Linnaeus found the excessively verbose and idiosyncratic schemes of his day to be unwieldy\'97if not entirely unworkable. In response, he devised a logical, consistent and simplified system to identify, name and classify all living things. \
Schooled in logic, a believer in divine creation and an adherent to the Ancient Greek concept of essentialism, Linnaeus considered the genus to central to his natural system of classification. [Mawr p. 176] Informed by this conviction, he introduced the method called binomial nomenclature (i.e., genus + species) for naming and identifying organisms. Linnaeus also introduced other reforms, including placing organisms into five ascending taxonomic ranks (Species, Genus, Order, Class and Kingdom), employing succinct descriptions for representatives of each rank, and resolving myriad synonymies. Although he considered the genus to be invariant and essential, his opinions on the nature and variation of species varied during his long and productive career. He also didn\'92t write much about the upper ranks, possibly because he regarded them as utilitarian rather than natural. [Mawr 172\'97178]\
Linnaeus was pragmatic in designing his system\'97hereafter referred to as the Linnaean Hierarchy. Eminently workable, it was quickly adopted by thousands of naturalists and scientists as they searched the globe for new species.\
The Linnaean Hierarchy has proven to be remarkably durable. Some elements have been revised or augmented to accommodate the ballooning of the total number of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://23E76B18-2F41-4E09-BA37-C1CB7E9FD1AC"}}{\fldrslt named species}}, and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4F40CCF9-496B-4008-B6C8-F2634DF84EFC"}}{\fldrslt proliferation of scientists studying them}}. For instance, the original taxonomic ranks within the Animal Kingdom have been increased from four to six core ranks (Species, Genus, Family, Order, Class and Phylum); there has also been the addition of several intermediate ranks (e.g., sub-genus and super-family) over the years. However, we still use binomial nomenclature and still refer to families, orders and phyla.\
\
[There were, two major developments that apply. One (Darwin) changed its intent. The other (Cladistics) successfully challenged it.]\
\
[Darwin and phylogeny]\
[Easier said than done]\
[Problems with the hybrid system: ad hoc, dependent on authorities, taxonomic dumping grounds, testability]\
\
\{Cladistics]\
\
\
\
}