{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 If you were asked to name five animals, which ones would they be? \
Chances are, most if not all of them would be mammals. That\'92s understandable. Most of our pets are mammals. Most of the local wildlife we notice or the animals on our farms or in our zoos are mammals. In fact, many people use the words mammal and animal interchangeably. \
But what if you were asked to name 50?\
This larger list would may include animals other than mammals. Indeed, it would be difficult to name so many of the latter. This second list might include several birds, some reptiles and amphibians, and possibly a few fishes or insects. And, if you started thinking about creatures that lived in tidepools, sandy beaches, rainforest or garden soils, the list would become considerably more varied, more diverse.  \
Even though we first think of mammals when we think of animals, they account for only a small percentage of the total. Estimates vary\'97there aren\'92t enough zoologists to keep track of everything, but between  1.3 and 1.4 million animal species have been collected, studied and named since {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://3B2B8CF3-A415-4CD3-BE84-5ED1236DF7D8"}}{\fldrslt Carl Linneaus}} started doing it in 1735.\
Since then, scientists have named just 4,475 species of mammals. That\'92s less than 0.3% of the total.  In fact, there are more species of birds, reptiles,  amphibians and ray-finned bony fishes than there are of mammals. Together with lesser numbers of cartilaginous fishes (sharks and their relatives), jawless fishes (lampreys and hagfishes), and lobe-finned fishes (lungfishes and coelacanths), these animals they belong to a group distinguished by internal skeleton with a skull in front (or top) and a spine that runs along the back. This skull (or actually this cranium) gives this group its name, Craniata. The more familiar name is vertebrates. \
The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://39AC2B07-838F-4223-9C42-DD430304A31B"}}{\fldrslt Craniata is a phylum}}, which is the highest subdivision (or top rank) of the Animal Kingdom. There are many other phyla (plural for phylum). Zoologists, the scientists who study animals, don\'92t fully agree on the number, but the total ranges between 30-38. There are some problems with the idea and application of the term phyla (I\'92ll get to that later), but it\'92s a traditional and useful handle for addressing the bewildering diversity of animals.\
As it turns out, the Craniata are among the more diverse animal phyla. There are about 65,000 species of craniates, while most other phyla are represented by less than 10,000 species and many by less than 100. Only the Mollusca (e.g., snails, squid, clams and chitons) and the Arthropoda (e.g., insects, shrimp, spiders and scorpions) contain more. However, the number of craniates\'97and even the Mollusca for that matter\'97are dwarfed by the number of arthropods. They number well over a million species. Indeed, the number of arthropods species far exceed those of all other animal phyla combined. If you represented the number of species in terms of area, all of the other phyla would fit comfortably within the space occupied by arthropods. Even more remarkably, the overwhelming majority of arthropods are insects. All of the other species\'97including all the arthropods that are not insects\'97would still fit comfortably within the area occupied by insects. See Figure 1. \
\
\'97 Figure 1; untransformed species richness of commonly recognized phyla; \'97\
\
The dramatic disparity in species richness (the number of species) shown in Figure 1 makes it nearly impossible to make inferences other than that arthropods rule and a handful of the others could be considered also-rans. These secondary phyla include the Annelida (e.g., earthworms, leeches and bristle worms), Cnidaria (e.g., sea anemones, corals and jellyfish), Craniata, Echinodermata (e.g., sea stars, sand dollars and sea urchins), Mollusca, Nematoda (roundworms), Platyhelminthes (e.g., flatworms, flukes and tapeworms), and Porifera (sponges). The remaining {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://17A1B62B-A88C-4EB3-B6F8-5F40E46AD9EA"}}{\fldrslt 30 phyla}} really don\'92t seem to matter. \
However, there are some noteworthy patterns I plan to discuss, and to do do so, a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D96A8CF4-D8FD-4C50-81AB-41B2EE4684EA"}}{\fldrslt data transformation}} is in order. In this case, I\'92ll use a square root transformation, which is commonly used for count (i.e, how many) data. This will make those phyla with the largest numbers somewhat smaller, while those with the fewest will be large enough to notice. Overall, comparisons among any combination of phyla will be much easier. The results are presented in Figure 2 and this transformation will also be used in the figures that follow.\
\
\'97Figure 2: transformed species richness of commonly recognized phyla \'97\
\
The Arthropoda is still the biggest kid on the block, but the relative importance of the Mollusca and other phyla just names is now more obvious. Less familiar, but still diverse phyla, including the Bryozoa (i.e., moss animals) Gastrotricha, Nematoda (roundworms), Platyhelminthes (e.g., flatworms, flukes and tapeworms), Rotifera, Tardigrada (i.e., water bears), and Tunicata (e.g., sea squirts and slaps) emerge from obscurity.}