{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Linnean Hierarchy\
174,205,437\
\
Linneaus\
-General:121,236,288,438,442,457,483,867\
-Classification: 101,171-180, 199, 206, 240\
-Sexual system - 177-180\
-Species: 258-260, 404\
-Variation: 288,640-641, 642, 741\
- Evolution: 340-341 874\
\
\
172-73\
Linnaeus guessed that there were about 10,000 species of animals. (He identified 4000 of them in 1758).\
Linnaeus was a practitioner of scholastic logic and strict essentialist yet he also accepted the principle of plenitude (the universe contains all possible forms of existence)\
The major aim of his method was the imminently practical one oaf assuring the correct identifications of plants and animals, the the procedure by which e tried to achieve this was the highly artificial one of logical division.\
His technical innovation (binomial nomenclature, rigorous and telegram-style of diagnosis, standardization of synonymies and of nearly every other aspect of taxonomy brought consensus and simplicity back into taxonomy and nomenclature. His system was largely responsible for the unprecedented flowering of taxonomic research on plants and animals during the 18
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  and early 19
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  centuries. (Criticism of the overemphasis on taxonomy and nomenclature over other aspects of natural history during this period).\
Linnaeus applied full logical rigor only at the level of the genus or species. He was less interested in higher categories and was vague or inconsistent with respect to infraspecific variation\
174-75\
The Linnean Hierarchy consisted within the kingdom of species, genus, order, and class. The provided clarity, simplicity and order to classification; as the number of species and genera grew, the need for a more elaborate hierarchy became evident. Family became widely used by 1800. Latreille was the first author to systematically employ additional levels.\
Linnaeus was rather vague on the significance of order, class and kingdom. It may be that he introduced them not for theoretical needs but purely practical reasons. He often stated that they were less natural than the genus. Classes are to some extent artificial, but suggests that they would be replaced by natural classes once all of creation as catalogued.\
He apparently regarded orders to be even more artificial: \'93An order is a subdivision of classes needed to avoid placing together more genera than the mid can easily follow\'94 Moreover, the higher levels for animals is less rigorous than those for plants. He invokes Leibniz\'92s plenitude motto that nature makes no jumps. He maintained that all taxa of plants have relationships on all sides as to neighboring countries on a map of the world. Presumably, this means that the gaps among orders and classes would fill up as more taxa are known.\
175-\
For Linnaeus, the genus was the cornerstone of classification. It provided the essence of an organism, which separates it from its neighbors in the same natural order. The genus would be obvious. The genus, with its essence, was the God-given real unit of diversity.\
340-41\
Plenitude (continuous) and hierarchy (discontinuous) are incompatible.\
Inadvertently, Linnaeus\'92s system of hierarchy was in conflict with the idea of plenitude. His recognition of genera orders and classes  effectively destroyed the continuity of life and replaced it with an hierarchy of discontinuities. To reconcile continuity in evolution with discontinuity of rank becomes one of the great challenges of evolutionary biology.\
258-260\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}