{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Although the relationships at the base of animal tree of life remain unresolved, there is consensus that four of the four of the groups that branch near the bottom of the animal tree, Bilateria, Cnideria, Ctenophora and Placozoa, form clearly-defined clades. On the other hand, the fifth group, Porifera (sponges), may or may not form a clade. There is an ongoing debate whether they are holophyletic or paraphyletic. In other words, are sponges more related to each other than they are to other animals, or all all other animals just really weird sponges? More about this later.\
The Bilateria is far-and-away the most species-rich of these basal clades. It accounts for about 98% of the total number of animal species and it accounts for most of the phyla, including Arthropoda, Mollusca and Craniata, discussed in the Introduction. Most bilaterians have three well-defined axes: front-and-back, top-and-bottom, and left-and-right. (The name comes from the roughly equal left and right sides evident in many of these animals.) There are exceptions, of course; you\'92d be hard pressed to point out the left or right of a sea star or a clam. On the other hand, it\'92s obvious that humans, birds, snakes, sharks, centipedes, crabs, butterflies, spiders, snails, flatworms, and even tapeworms have a left and a right.\
The other three well-defined clades traditionally hold the rank of phylum (calling into question exactly what is a phylum). Cnidarians (including anemones, corals, jellyfish) are, with approximately 10,000 species, relatively diverse. Ctenophora (comb jellies) number a few hundred species, while Placozoa (no common name) has only one recognized species, although genetic analyses suggest there are more.\
As stated above, sponges, may or may not constitute a true clade. Traditionally, all sponges have been placed into a single phylum named Porifera. They are\'97with the exception of a bizarre group of deepwater carnivorous sponges\'97all characterized by a unique, aquiferous system that pulls the surrounding water into a multitude of tiny pores (hence the name Porifera) through a complex of tubes and chambers to either a single or a small number of exits. In addition to their unique aquiferous system, other morphological evidence points to sponges as a true clade. They have no nervous system, no muscles and no gut. They also share\'97again, except for the carnivorous sponges\'97a distinctive cell type not found in other animals: the choanocyte. These cells have a single flagellum (a long, beating, whip-like structure) and a ring of microvilli (small protrusions of the cell membrane) that form a collar at the flagellum\'92s base. Together, they create a current that draws in bacteria and other picoplankton (really small drifting organisms) that are trapped and then ingested by the microvilli. In turn, the collective beating of hundreds or thousands of choanocyte flagella drives the flow of water through a sponge.\
The flagella and collar of sponge choanocytes bear a striking resemblance to distinctive structures found in a unicellular group of \'93protozoans\'94 called choanoflagellates. The similarities between the these two types of cells was recognized\'97soon after the development of sophisticated optical microscopes\'97by F\'e9lix Dujardin, who proposed a close relationship between sponges and choanoflagellates in 1841. (Dujardin regarded sponges as a colonial form of choanoflagellates.) adoption of microscopes by \
Similarity of choanocytes and choanoflagellates\
Sponges basal (simple and apparently similar to unicellular forms_ its easy to envision a scenario in which choanocytes gave rise to , now the question is holophyletic or paraphyletic\
\
Morphological evidence, including  points to a sponges as a true clade, the molecular evidence is mixed.\
\
\
\
Almost all of them also have a free-living larval stage and sessile adult stage (permanently planted in one place). \
\
\
\
}