{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 As stated above, sponges, may or may not constitute a true clade. Traditionally, all sponges have been placed into a single phylum named Porifera. They are\'97with the exception of a bizarre group of deepwater carnivorous sponges\'97all characterized by a unique, aquiferous system that pulls the surrounding water into a multitude of tiny pores (hence the name Porifera) through a complex of tubes and chambers to either a single or a small number of exits. Other morphological evidence also points to sponges as a true clade. They have no nervous system, no muscles and no gut. They also share\'97again, except for the carnivorous sponges\'97a distinctive cell type not found in other animals: the choanocyte. These cells have a single flagellum (a long, beating, whip-like structure) and a ring of microvilli (small protrusions of the cell membrane) that form a collar at the flagellum\'92s base. Together, they create a current that draws in bacteria and other picoplankton (really small drifting organisms) that are trapped and then ingested by the microvilli. In turn, the collective beating of hundreds or thousands of choanocyte flagella drives the flow of water through a sponge.\
The flagella and collar of sponge choanocytes bear a striking resemblance to distinctive structures found in a unicellular group of \'93protozoans\'94 called choanoflagellates. The similarities between the the two was recognized by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AB38DF67-D3A5-436E-9085-455821AB6FF6"}}{\fldrslt F\'e9lix Dujardin}} soon after the development of  microscopes capable of revealing such details. In 1841, he proposed a close relationship between sponges and choanoflagellates. It should be noted, however, that he regarded sponges as colonial infusoria (an archaic term for a wide variety of microscopic organisms) instead of proper animals. Even as late as the closing decades of the 20
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century, some notable biologists, including Lynn Margulis, questioned whether sponges merit inclusion in the Metazoa.\
\
\
\
Why are sponges recognized as animals even before molecular studies?\
\
Traditionally regarded as the most basal, most primitive. It\'92s relatively easy to envision the evolution of a unicellular choanoflagellate-like ancestors into a multicellular sponge-like animal. By and large, sponges are very simple animals , some choanoflagellates are colonial and they form colonies simply by dividing cells that stick together. Sponges are notorious for regeneration.so simple they can put themselves back together again. Even the carnivorous sponges are distinctly un-animal-like in the way they capture food\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Morphological evidence, including  points to a sponges as a true clade, the molecular evidence is mixed.\
\
\
\
Almost all of them also have a free-living larval stage and sessile adult stage (permanently planted in one place). \
}