{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl-320\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Gilbert, Scott F. And Barresi, Michael J. F. 2016 Developmental Biology, Eleventh Edition\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 Making New Bodies\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}11 - vegetal pole - rich in yolk\
{\listtext	\'95	}11 the pattern of cleavage is determined by two factors: the amount and distribution of yolk protein which determines where cleavage can occur  and the relative size of the blastomere; the factors in the cytoplasm that influences the angles of mitotic spindles and their timing\
{\listtext	\'95	}11 In general yolk inhibits cleavage\
{\listtext	\'95	}11-13 snails, mammals and sea urchins have sparse and widely distributed yolk; cleavage occurs throughout the entire egg and these embryos must have other ways to obtain nutrients (either a voracious larval form or placenta. In contrast, birds, reptiles and fish and insects have a lot of yolk which must be sufficient to nourish them throughout development; only a portion of the egg that\'92s away from the yolk undergoes cleavage in birds and reptiles. Yolk is concentrated in the interior of insect eggs so cleavage occurs along the periphery and tends to be superficial.\
{\listtext	\'95	}14 Gastrulation is what makes animals animals. plants and fungi don\'92t.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Lewis Wolpert (1986) quipped \'93It is not burrito, marriage, or death, but gastrulation which is truly the most important time in your life.\'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}During Gastrulation, cells of the blastula are given new positions and new neighbors and the multilayered body plan of the organism is established. \
{\listtext	\'95	}14 Gastrulation usually proceeds by some combination of invagination, involution, ingression delimitation and epiboly. These movements involve the entire embryo and cell migrations in one part must be intimately coordinated with other, simultaneous movements. The patterns of gastrulation vary tremendously.\
{\listtext	\'95	}14 germ layers, endoderm, mesoderm, ectoderm\
{\listtext	\'95	}in bilaterians\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}endoderm - epidermis, neurons, melanocytes\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}mesoderm - notochord, bone, table cells of kidneys, erythrocytes, facial muscles\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}endoderm - stomach, thyroid, alveolar cells in lungs\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}germ cells\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}16 von Baer\'92s Laws \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}general features of larger groups appear earlier in development\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}less general features develop from the more generalized\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}the embryo, instead of passing through the adults of \'93lower animals\'94, departs more from them at later state.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The early embryo of a higher animal is never like a lower animal but only like its early embryo.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}17 Two major types of cells, epithelial and mesenchymal (unconnected or loosely connected and can operate independently \
{\listtext	\'95	}18 Morphogenesis\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}direction and number of cell divisions (e.g., dog breeds)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}cell shape changes - change in shape can transform a sheet into a tube\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}23-25 Evolutionary Embryology\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Darwin, after reading Johannes Mueller, summary of von Baer\'92s laws in 1842 realized that embryological resemblance would be a strong argument for decent with modification. In Origins he stated \'93Community of embryonic structure reveals community of decent.\'94\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Embryology was used in taxonomy even before Origins. In the 1830s, J.V. Thompson demonstrated that barnacles were crustaceans rather than mollusks. Darwin was aware of this\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Alexander Kovwalevsky (1871) made a discovery of the notochord and pharyngeal arches in tunicates and thus they were related to vertebrates. This happened after origins, but Darwin praised it in the Decent of Man in 1874.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Homology, bat wing and mouse hand\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Specifying Identity\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Remarkable thing, same genome but different expression\
{\listtext	\'95	}Chromatin, histones and gene expression\
{\listtext	\'95	}Transcription factors\
{\listtext	\'95	}Alternate splicing\
}