{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The final part of this introduction, which you could regard as an initial assessment of animal diversity, deals with where they are found. Nearly all of the phyla shown in Figure 4 are found in the oceans. In fact, many are found nowhere else. This shouldn\'92t come as a surprise. The oceans are the place where animals\'97and life itself\'97first evolved.\
You could think of the ocean as the primeval womb, and this salty gestation has left its mark on the fundamental operations and composition of living cells. Each one is enveloped by a membrane that is permeable by water, but little else. Cells use a variety of tricks to import some chemicals and expel others that would ordinarily be blocked by this membrane. As a consequence of these activities, sugars, amino acids, a host of other organic molecules, as well as potassium ions are concentrated inside. The surrounding seawater, in contrasts, contains high concentrations of sodium and chloride ions, but low to negligible concentrations of anything else.\
This striking difference in composition inside and outside the cell is one of the hallmarks of life, but the cell really can\'92t stop water from entering or leaving. It can, however, set up conditions whereby the flow of water into the cell roughly matches that leaving it. It achieves this by matching the total osmolarity (the concentration of dissolved particles) inside the cell with that outside it. Although the respective compositions differ dramatically, their total, combined concentrations are effectively equal inside and out.\
This balance breaks down if the animal moves into freshwater. There are far fewer total dissolved salts (and other chemicals) in the surrounding water than there are within the cells. Given this, more water will enter than will leave. This is not good. Unless cells find ways to r{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D1094BAA-64E2-457B-A038-A2C7A4BE8B3C"}}{\fldrslt emove this excess water}}, they\'92ll burst. \
As it turns out, an impressive variety of animals have found ways to contend with this problem. Roughly have of the phyla shown in Figure 4 have been able to cross the marine-freshwater barrier to colonize streams, lakes and wetlands. Interestingly, many of them are species-rich (e.g., the Arthropoda, Mollusca, Annelida and Platyhelminthes). \
The transition to land presents a something of an opposite challenge to that presented by freshwater. Instead of too much water entering the cell, too much water leaves. Nonetheless, a respectable number of phyla have managed to overcome this problem, but only if they inhabit moist environments such as soaked moss, wet soils, or are active only during the damp and cool of night. Two familiar examples of this approach are earthworms (Annelida) and garden snails (Mollusca). A less familiar example are the velvet worms (Onychophora), which looks somewhat like a cross between an earthworm and a millipede. (It\'92s not.) Interestingly, velvet worms are one of only two phyla that are not found in the ocean, although fossils demonstrate that they once thrived there. \
Making it on dry land has proven to be a far greater challenge. Only three phyla, Arthropoda, Craniata and Mollusca, have managed to colonize theses environments. The mollusks who can tolerate drier conditions are represented by only a modest number of snails. Arthropods and craniates, on the other hand, present an extraordinary diversity and abundance in environments that are apparently unavailable for most other animals. Moreover, representatives of these two phyla, insects, birds and bats, are also the only current animals to take to the air.\
The last environment to be considered here is that found inside of other animals. The majority of these inhabitants are parasitic; they harm the host. Arthropoda, Nematoda and Platyhelminthes have the greatest numbers of parasitic species and there are a couple of  smaller phyla such as Nematomorpha (horsehair worms) that are exclusively parasitic. However endoparasites (parasites that live inside their hosts) are either absent (e.g., echinoderms and craniates) or account for only small minority (e.g, mollusks and cnidarians) in most other phyla,\
 \
\
 \
}