{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The delineating and characterizing of these patterns of groups within groups has been a cornerstone of zoological classification since the publication of the tenth edition of Carolus Linnaeus\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://61788519-C934-4D85-B039-78974C1D0E24"}}{\fldrslt 
\i Systema Naturae}}
\i  
\i0 in 1758. An avid naturalists, Linnaeus found the excessively verbose and often idiosyncratic schemes of his day to be unwieldy, if not entirely unworkable. In response, he devised a logical, consistent and simplified system to identify, name and classify all living things. \
Schooled in logic, a believer in divine creation, and an adherent to the Ancient Greek concept of essentialism, Linnaeus believe the genus (from Latin word to bare or to produce) was the essential expression of life. Essentialism refers to the qualities that makes a thing a thing and in this context, the genus expresses the things that makes a rose a rose or a dog a dog. Informed by this conviction, he devised the method called binomial nomenclature (genus + species) for naming and identifying plants and animals. For example, 
\i Rosa gallic
\i0  and 
\i Rosa rubiginosa
\i0  are the Linnaen (or scientific) names for the French and sweetbriar roses, while 
\i Canis latrans
\i0  and 
\i Canis lupus
\i0  are the names for the coyote and wolf. In short, the Linnaeus regarded the genus to represent the ideal form, or essence whereas the species are variations thereof.\
Linnaeus introduced other reforms, including the use of succinct descriptions that greatly clarified how one defines a genus, species, or variety, as well as a protocol for resolving synonymies (different names for the same thing). But the one that\'92s most relevant to this discussion was his placing of plants and animals into five ascending taxonomic ranks: Species, Genus, Order, Class and Kingdom. \
Linnaeus didn\'92t {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F43CE560-F170-4B35-BD38-565462B8799A"}}{\fldrslt elaborate much}} on these, but he regarded the higher rankings as more utilitarian than natural. He believed in plenitude, the idea that Creation already contains all the possible forms of life that can and will exist. One way to think about this is to envision a map filled with provinces. Each province is defined by its own distinctive geography and each province abuts other provinces similarly defined by their own geographies. Like the genera conceived by Linnaeus, these provinces can be thought of as natural and, like them, there are no gaps between one and another. \
In turn, these provinces could be organized into countries, and the countries could be bound by the edges of a continent. Continuing with this analogy, the countries could be thought of as orders and the classes as continents. Linnaeus apparently held orders to be fully utilitarian: \'93An order is a subdivision of classes needed to avoid placing together more genera than the mind can easily follow.\'94 Classes, on the other hand, held promise to be truly natural groupings, but he regarded his own classes to be provisional. He envisioned that as more and more of the genera are defined, the true outlines of the classes would become evident. \
Linnaeus had, by 1758, named described and named an impressive {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BB451F5C-C8A1-4C90-A7CB-FA6EDC6C2096"}}{\fldrslt 4236 species of animals}}, and he guessed that the total would ultimately approach 10,000. Although he clearly missed the mark in this estimate, his pragmatic system of classification proved to be durable and transformative. Readily learned and eminently workable, it was quickly adopted by thousands of naturalists and scientists as they searched the globe for new species.  \
Much of the philosophical underpinning for his system, including the expectation of plenitude and the essentialism of the genus, lost favor over the years as the volume of species mounted and their unanticipated variety both dazzled and confounded researchers whose experience of biodiversity was rooted in the impoverished flora and fauna of Western Europe. On the other hand, the mechanics of the Linnaean system have largely prevailed. We still use binomial nomenclature to name species and employ concise descriptions to clarify what they are. Most germane to our current discussion, however, is the use\'97and considerable elaboration\'97of ascending taxonomic ranks. (This part of the Linnaean System will hereafter be referred to as the Linnaean Hierarchy.)\
As more and more species were studied, named and described\'97and those who were already know but examined in more detail, it became clear that revisions were in order. This commonly took the form of splitting existing groups. For instance, In 1758, Linnaeus erected six classes of animals in 1758: Mammalia, Aves (birds), Amphibia (reptiles and amphibians), Pisces (fish), Insecta (arthropods), and Vermes (worm-like creatures). By the dawn of the 19
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century, it was clear that the Vermes contained many groups, including corals, annelids, echinoderms, and mollusks that should also be classes. New ranks were also employed to handle the expanding diversity. The use of Family was well-established by the final decade of the 18
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century and Phylum was proposed by the middle of the 19
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  century. For some groups, especially insects, researchers felt compelled to add several intermediate ranks (e.g., tribe sub-genus, super-family and infra-order) to accommodate their exceptional diversity. \
The proliferation of ranks or the splitting of groups within them could be seen as a practical response to the challenge of classifying an ever-growing number of plants and animals. However, the ranks themselves took on far more meaning that Linnaeus originally envisioned. It really mattered whether a group merited the rank of order, family, tribe or genus. This importance is reflected in the naming codes or conventions used for these ranks. For plants, algae and fungi (the latter two were once included within the plant kingdom), the endings of the names conform to their respective ranks. For instance, plant orders are required  to end with \'93-ales\'94 (e.g., Poales, grasses, sedges and their kin) while fungal classes end with -mycetes (e.g., Basidomycetes, mushrooms with caps). The International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (the code that standardizes the naming of animals) doesn\'92t require such endings for the higher ranks, but conventions have nonetheless been systematically adopted in some groups. For instance, -iformes is applied to all the names for bird orders (e.g., Strigiformes, owls). On the other hand, endings have been codified for the lower ranks (eg., Canidae, dog family).}